docs/source/quickstart/function-call.rst, before:

=================
Function Call
=================

Using ``Throttled`` to check if a request is allowed is very simple.

You just need to call the ``limit`` method and pass in the specified ``key``, which will return a ``RateLimitResult``.

**It is important to note that** ``limit`` **does not raise any exceptions**, you can determine whether the request is
allowed by checking the ``RateLimitResult.limited`` attribute.

You can also get a snapshot of the Throttled state after calling ``limit`` through the ``RateLimitResult.state``
attribute.

If you just want to check the latest state of ``Throttled`` without deducting requests, you can use the ``peek``
method, which will also return a ``RateLimitState``.

The following example will guide you through the basic usage of ``Throttled``:

.. tab:: Sync

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/function_call_example.py
       :language: python


.. tab:: Async

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/async/function_call_example.py
       :language: python

Commit message:

docs: add API reference documentation (#90)
* docs: add API reference documentation

* docs: enhance docstrings for store classes

* docs: update documentation with proper class and method references

docs/source/quickstart/function-call.rst, after:

=================
Function Call
=================

Using :class:`Throttled <throttled.Throttled>` to check if a request is allowed is very simple.

You just need to call the :py:meth:`Throttled.limit <throttled.Throttled.limit>` method and pass in the specified ``key``,
which will return a :class:`RateLimitResult <throttled.RateLimitResult>` object.

**It is important to note that** :py:meth:`Throttled.limit <throttled.Throttled.limit>`
**does not raise any exceptions**, you can determine whether the request is allowed by checking the
:py:attr:`RateLimitResult.limited <throttled.RateLimitResult.limited>` attribute.

You can also get a snapshot of the Throttled state after calling :py:meth:`Throttled.limit <throttled.Throttled.limit>`
through the :py:attr:`RateLimitResult.state <throttled.RateLimitResult.state>` attribute.

If you just want to check the latest state of :class:`Throttled <throttled.Throttled>` without deducting requests,
you can use the :py:meth:`Throttled.peek <throttled.Throttled.peek>` method,
which will also return a :class:`RateLimitState <throttled.RateLimitState>` object.

The following example will guide you through the basic usage of :class:`Throttled <throttled.Throttled>`:

.. tab:: Sync

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/function_call_example.py
       :language: python


.. tab:: Async

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/async/function_call_example.py
       :language: python
