docs/source/quickstart/quota-configuration.rst, before:

======================
Quota Configuration
======================

``Quota`` represents the rules for rate limiting.


1) Quick Setup
=======================

``throttled-py`` provides quick functions to configure common time-based ``Quota``.

.. tab:: Sync

    .. code-block:: python

        from throttled import rate_limiter

        rate_limiter.per_sec(60)    # 60 req/sec
        rate_limiter.per_min(60)    # 60 req/min
        rate_limiter.per_hour(60)   # 60 req/hour
        rate_limiter.per_day(60)    # 60 req/day
        rate_limiter.per_week(60)   # 60 req/week


.. tab:: Async

    .. code-block:: python

        from throttled.asyncio import rate_limiter

        rate_limiter.per_sec(60)    # 60 req/sec
        rate_limiter.per_min(60)    # 60 req/min
        rate_limiter.per_hour(60)   # 60 req/hour
        rate_limiter.per_day(60)    # 60 req/day
        rate_limiter.per_week(60)   # 60 req/week


2) Custom Quota
===================

If the quick configuration does not meet your needs, you can customize the ``Quota`` through the ``per_duration`` method:

.. tab:: Sync

    .. code-block:: python

        from datetime import timedelta
        from throttled import rate_limiter

        # A total of 120 requests are allowed in two minutes, and a burst of 150 requests is allowed.
        rate_limiter.per_duration(timedelta(minutes=2), limit=120, burst=150)


.. tab:: Async

    .. code-block:: python

        from datetime import timedelta
        from throttled.asyncio import rate_limiter

        # A total of 120 requests are allowed in two minutes, and a burst of 150 requests is allowed.
        rate_limiter.per_duration(timedelta(minutes=2), limit=120, burst=150)


3) Burst Capacity
===================

The ``burst`` argument can be used to adjust the ability of the throttling object to handle burst traffic.

This is valid for the following algorithms:

* ``TOKEN_BUCKET``
* ``LEAKING_BUCKET``
* ``GCRA``

.. tab:: Sync

    .. code-block:: python

        from throttled import rate_limiter

        # Allow 120 burst requests.
        # When burst is not specified, the default setting is the limit passed in.
        rate_limiter.per_min(60, burst=120)


.. tab:: Async

    .. code-block:: python

        from throttled.asyncio import rate_limiter

        # Allow 120 burst requests.
        # When burst is not specified, the default setting is the limit passed in.
        rate_limiter.per_min(60, burst=120)

Commit message:

docs: add API reference documentation (#90)
* docs: add API reference documentation

* docs: enhance docstrings for store classes

* docs: update documentation with proper class and method references

docs/source/quickstart/quota-configuration.rst, after:

======================
Quota Configuration
======================

:class:`Quota <throttled.rate_limiter.Quota>` represents the rules for rate limiting.


1) Quick Setup
=======================

``throttled-py`` provides quick functions to configure common time-based :class:`Quota <throttled.rate_limiter.Quota>`.

.. tab:: Sync

    .. code-block:: python

        from throttled import rate_limiter

        rate_limiter.per_sec(60)    # 60 req/sec
        rate_limiter.per_min(60)    # 60 req/min
        rate_limiter.per_hour(60)   # 60 req/hour
        rate_limiter.per_day(60)    # 60 req/day
        rate_limiter.per_week(60)   # 60 req/week


.. tab:: Async

    .. code-block:: python

        from throttled.asyncio import rate_limiter

        rate_limiter.per_sec(60)    # 60 req/sec
        rate_limiter.per_min(60)    # 60 req/min
        rate_limiter.per_hour(60)   # 60 req/hour
        rate_limiter.per_day(60)    # 60 req/day
        rate_limiter.per_week(60)   # 60 req/week


2) Custom Quota
===================

If the quick configuration does not meet your needs, you can customize the :class:`Quota <throttled.rate_limiter.Quota>`
through the :py:meth:`per_duration <throttled.rate_limiter.per_duration>` method:

.. tab:: Sync

    .. code-block:: python

        from datetime import timedelta
        from throttled import rate_limiter

        # A total of 120 requests are allowed in two minutes, and a burst of 150 requests is allowed.
        rate_limiter.per_duration(timedelta(minutes=2), limit=120, burst=150)


.. tab:: Async

    .. code-block:: python

        from datetime import timedelta
        from throttled.asyncio import rate_limiter

        # A total of 120 requests are allowed in two minutes, and a burst of 150 requests is allowed.
        rate_limiter.per_duration(timedelta(minutes=2), limit=120, burst=150)


3) Burst Capacity
===================

The :py:attr:`burst <throttled.rate_limiter.Quota.burst>` argument can be used to adjust the ability of
the throttling object to handle burst traffic.

This is valid for the following algorithms:

* ``TOKEN_BUCKET``
* ``LEAKING_BUCKET``
* ``GCRA``

.. tab:: Sync

    .. code-block:: python

        from throttled import rate_limiter

        # Allow 120 burst requests.
        # When burst is not specified, the default setting is the limit passed in.
        rate_limiter.per_min(60, burst=120)


.. tab:: Async

    .. code-block:: python

        from throttled.asyncio import rate_limiter

        # Allow 120 burst requests.
        # When burst is not specified, the default setting is the limit passed in.
        rate_limiter.per_min(60, burst=120)
