docs/source/quickstart/store-backends.rst, before:

=================
Store Backends
=================

1) In-Memory
=================

``MemoryStore`` is essentially a memory-based
`LRU Cache <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cache_replacement_policies#LRU>`_ with expiration time, it is thread-safe and
can be used for rate limiting in a single process.

By default, ``Throttled`` will initialize a global ``MemoryStore`` instance with maximum capacity of 1024,
so **you don't usually need to create it manually.**

Also note that ``throttled.store.MemoryStore`` and ``throttled.asyncio.MemoryStore`` are implemented based on
``threading.RLock`` and ``asyncio.Lock`` respectively, so the global instance is also independent
for synchronous and asynchronous usage.

Different instances mean different storage spaces, if you want to limit the same key in different places
in your program, **make sure that** ``Throttled`` **receives the same** ``MemoryStore`` **instance** and
uses the same ``Quota`` configuration.

The following example uses ``MemoryStore`` as the storage backend and throttles the same Key on ping and pong:

.. tab:: Sync

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/memory_example.py
       :language: python


.. tab:: Async

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/async/memory_example.py
       :language: python


2) Redis
=================

``RedisStore`` is implemented based on `redis-py <https://github.com/redis/redis-py>`_, you can use it for
rate limiting in a distributed environment.

It supports the following arguments:

* ``server``: `Standard Redis URL <https://github.com/redis/lettuce/wiki/Redis-URI-and-connection-details#uri-syntax>`_.

* ``options``: Redis connection configuration, supports all configuration items
  of `redis-py <https://github.com/redis/redis-py>`_, see
  `RedisStore Options <https://github.com/ZhuoZhuoCrayon/throttled-py?tab=readme-ov-file#redisstore-options>`_.

The following example uses ``RedisStore`` as the storage backend:

.. tab:: Sync

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/redis_example.py
       :language: python


.. tab:: Async

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/async/redis_example.py
       :language: python

Commit message:

docs: add API reference documentation (#90)
* docs: add API reference documentation

* docs: enhance docstrings for store classes

* docs: update documentation with proper class and method references

docs/source/quickstart/store-backends.rst, after:

=================
Store Backends
=================

.. _store-backends-in-memory:

1) In-Memory
=================

:class:`MemoryStore <throttled.store.MemoryStore>` is essentially a memory-based
`LRU Cache <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cache_replacement_policies#LRU>`_ with expiration time, it is thread-safe and
can be used for rate limiting in a single process.

By default, :class:`Throttled <throttled.Throttled>` will initialize a global
:class:`MemoryStore <throttled.store.MemoryStore>` instance with maximum capacity of 1024,
so **you don't usually need to create it manually.**

Also note that ``throttled.store.MemoryStore`` and ``throttled.asyncio.store.MemoryStore`` are implemented based on
``threading.RLock`` and ``asyncio.Lock`` respectively, so the global instance is also independent
for synchronous and asynchronous usage.

Different instances mean different storage spaces, if you want to limit the same key in different places
in your program, **make sure that** :class:`Throttled <throttled.Throttled>` **receives the same**
:class:`MemoryStore <throttled.store.MemoryStore>` **instance** and uses the same
:class:`Quota <throttled.rate_limiter.Quota>` configuration.

The following example uses :class:`MemoryStore <throttled.store.MemoryStore>` as the storage backend and
throttles the same Key on ping and pong:

.. tab:: Sync

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/memory_example.py
       :language: python


.. tab:: Async

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/async/memory_example.py
       :language: python


.. _store-backends-redis:

2) Redis
=================

:class:`RedisStore <throttled.store.RedisStore>` is implemented based on `redis-py <https://github.com/redis/redis-py>`_,
you can use it for rate limiting in a distributed environment.

It supports the following arguments:

* ``server``: `Standard Redis URL <https://github.com/redis/lettuce/wiki/Redis-URI-and-connection-details#uri-syntax>`_.

* ``options``: Redis connection configuration, supports all configuration items
  of `redis-py <https://github.com/redis/redis-py>`_, see :ref:`RedisStore Options <store-configuration-redis-store-options>`.

The following example uses :class:`RedisStore <throttled.store.RedisStore>` as the storage backend:

.. tab:: Sync

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/redis_example.py
       :language: python


.. tab:: Async

    .. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/quickstart/async/redis_example.py
       :language: python
